DOCS-696/711/723/722/480: align component model pages and example json templates (#1170)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/components/encoder/AMS-AS5048.md

---

The `AMS-AS5048` encoder model supports AMS's [AS5048](https://ams.com/en/as5048a) encoder.
This is an absolute encoder that uses an [I2C](/components/board/#i2cs) or [SPI](/components/board/#spis) interface to connect.
Any [motor](/components/motor) using the `AMS-AS5048` encoder must have the `ticks_per_rotation` attribute configured as `1` because this encoder provides angular measurements directly.

> To configure the encoder, you must first [configure an I2C bus](/components/board/#i2cs) on your [board](/components/board).

Author: ```suggestion
To configure the encoder, you must first [configure an I<sup>2</sup>C bus](/components/board/#i2cs) on your [board](/components/board).
```
